[Music]
it's the latest news in tech foldable
phones coming soon
the future is here and all i can think
is
i had a foldable phone back in the
early 2000s
yeah the thing folded in half and
flipped open with a flick of your thumb
wait are we going back in time
the familiar old flip phones for anyone
not old enough to remember
usually had a screen on one side and a
keypad on the other
connected by a small hinge the clamshell
design
ah takes me back but nowadays we need
bigger and bigger screens
we're now working and studying from our
phones watching movies and shows
multitasking with split screen features
watching a youtube video on one side
chat on social media on the other so no
the future will be nothing like the past
it'll be all about a big
long bendable screen just picture it
you're watching a video on your phone as
you do the dishes or watch the dog
you come into the living room sit on the
sofa but no need to switch to tv
you can just unfold your phone into a
big tablet
but then it's time for work or school so
you just roll your phone around your
wrist like a bracelet
and run out the door or walk that'll be
a reality sooner than you think
because foldable screens already exist
thanks to oled display technology
all devices and some modern ones use lcd
displays
lcd works by laying millions of colored
dots
also known as pixels in front of a
backlight
if your phone has this type and you
really look into the screen
you can sometimes see them or you may
have noticed it on
old broken phones when the backlight
breaks
you can still see the picture but it's
barely visible
but when the pixels break all you get is
a big pile of
nothingness on your phone but the
backlight still shines
these fancy organic light emitting diode
displays or
oled also have millions of colored
pixels
but they're tiny so even if you try with
all your might to see them on your new
laptop or phone screen
you won't be able to and with these ones
every dot makes its own light this
technology is more battery consuming
but it creates a much better more vivid
color
save space too since there's no need for
a backlight
and when printed on a thin layer of
plastic you can do a lot of cool things
you can shape it or you guessed it bend
it
oled displays have been used in a lot of
products you might even have in your
house
right now it allows the newest monitors
and tvs to have a curved shape
and some of the latest smartphones have
bent screens
so why don't we have foldable phones
available
to us already well the first problem
manufacturers face
is how to make a foldable screen that's
consumer friendly
we've got used to having durable but
very unbendable glass protected
touchscreens
on most of our smartphones and tablets
with foldable displays made out of
plastics
people will be touching the screen
itself to interact with it
not the glass protecting the touch
screen remember early gadgets with
plastic screens
yeah they get all scratched up after
constant usage and being stuck in our
pockets
now imagine what would happen to your
smartphone screen
if it was made out of plastic and good
luck finding a bendable screen protector
but even if we can figure out how to
bend the screen
smartphones have other components as you
can imagine
batteries and chips aren't very bendable
power supplies and lithium ion batteries
can even catch on fire if fluxed too
much
almost everything in the modern phone is
made from aluminum and plastic that
yes can be bent but eventually will snap
and break apart
so just to make the phone physically
bendable the whole manufacturing process
has to be revolutionized every small
detail
from the screen and battery to the case
and outer protection
has to be redesigned as well as
revolutionizing the materials smartphone
manufacturers will have to redesign
some of the components large oled
screens or more than one display
will need so much more energy than
modern smartphone batteries can create
battery capacity is advancing with every
passing year
but it's still not enough i'm already
running out of juice after watching just
a few youtube videos
just imagine having to recharge your
foldable phone
every four to five hours hardware aside
the software will also have to be almost
entirely redone
current operating systems like ios or
android
are made to work on either a smartphone
or a tablet
but for a foldable smartphone the system
will have to be able to do both
and quickly switch between phone and
tablet mode
all the apps and the operating system
will have to adapt to the changing
screen
size that also means a lot more
processing power
right now the best solution seems to be
the android os
since it's already been made to work on
many devices with a variety of sizes
but this isn't only a problem for the
operating system
but for app developers as well for
example
streaming services like netflix will
have to figure out how to stretch
or resize videos for every screen size
and it's not the same as putting your
phone vertically or horizontally
with a foldable phone you'll be able to
customize the size of the screen as you
like
with infinite possibilities sounds cool
but it's a lot of work changing
everything to fit that
and the main problem of why we don't see
many consumer ready foldable phones on
the market
already is the price of manufacturing
just imagine how much companies will
have to change their production process
if every single part of the phone has to
be changed
well that means completely new materials
methods machines
that can explain why most tech companies
aren't jumping head first into the mass
production of foldable phones
but with more progress every day it'll
eventually become cheaper to produce
them
so will we ever see foldable phones sure
you can already buy them not exactly the
futuristic bracelet kind
but there are simple clamshell foldable
devices
it's almost exactly like those old flip
phones but both
panels are screens with bright displays
the only problem
is the hinge to protect the phone and
make it more durable
hinges were made too strong so you can't
exactly open it with a flick of a finger
and after a mechanical test even these
durable hinges broke after twenty seven
thousand openings
for an everyday item that's not a lot
some other new devices recently
presented to the public
look more like a glimpse into the future
a long tablet-like display that can be
folded into the size of a regular
smartphone
sadly the newest designs are still
clanky and sometimes too thick
making them less interesting for a
regular user plus
most of the modern foldable phones have
one big glaring flaw
a crease in the middle where the screen
falls
not a big problem but it's not very
enjoyable compared to the seamless large
screens
of regular modern smartphones in
addition to all these mechanical
problems
there's the issue of cost most of these
currently available
foldable phones start at one thousand
bucks and can go as high as three
thousand
that's not a price most phone users are
ready to pay
despite the problems i've mentioned the
design and production of new foldable
phones is still going on
there was a tech demo that presented a
new design for a phone
one that actually wraps around a
person's wrist like a bracelet or watch
an apple has recently gotten a patent
for a phone that can roll up like a
scroll
some people say the future is in
foldable laptops
not smartphones the ability to watch a
movie
and then roll your laptop up into a thin
tube that hardly takes up any space in
your bag
just take my money already i'm in